at least nine Palestinians have been
killed in a coordinated series of raids
and Strikes carried out by Israeli
forces in the occupied West Bank the
Israeli Army says the operations carried
out in four cities were designed to
quote thwart terrorism in Janine and
tcam in the northern West
Bank tearing up roads as they come
Israeli soldiers have descended on
refugee camps Villages and cities across
the north of the occupied West
Bank according to Israel's foreign
minister these troops have gone in to
destroy Terror
infrastructure while Israel has been
carrying out near daily raids since the
Hamas October 7th terrorist attacks this
operation seems to be significantly
larger experts say it's the first time
since 2005 that Israeli forces have
attacked in so many places at once in
the West
Bank the city of Janine long known as a
militant strong hold is one of the
focuses of the
raids Palestinian media says that
Israeli troops here have sealed off
several roads and blocked access to
medical facilities by building Earth
barriers in the
streets Israel has been attacking from
the air as well carrying out drone
strikes on targets including this car
that was hit near
Janine the Israeli Army released this
footage of another strike on the Farrar
refugee camp that it said killed four
militants this man was wounded in that
attack which he said killed his family
members my wife asked me what
happened I told her and asked her to go
and check on the children on the
rooftop when she moved to the Rooftop
she found three of our children two may
they rest in
peace and one was injured they took him
to the hospital and hopefully he'll be
okay it's not yet clear how long the
Israeli operation in the West Bank might
last the Palestinian Authority has
condemned it as a serious escalation and
urged the US to
intervene let's bring in DW's Felix Hut
who's in Jerusalem for more on this
Felix these were as we just heard the
biggest Israeli raids in close to two
decades uh in the occupied West Bank can
you tell us more about what Israel is
trying to achieve
here well the hope that the uh Israeli
government and the Army uh have is that
they they hope to uh as they said
themselves through our terrorism and uh
basically look for uh what they believe
is terrorism in infrastructure there in
the West Bank it is a large scale
operation or at least larger than what
we have seen so far uh in the past uh
several years there's also the there's
also been the use of uh aircraft uh in
the West Bank which uh in the past few
months has become some sort of a
normality um and uh given the scale of
the operation uh it doesn't look like
it's going to die down anytime soon
Israel's foreign minister has called for
the temporary evacuation of pal
Palestinians from the West Bank as part
of this operation can you tell us more
about that why why is he calling for
this well first of all it needs to be
said that the uh that the strategy of uh
temporarily evacuating uh civilians from
an area has become some sort of a uh
talking point in Israel um due to the
fact that it it has become sort of
strategic Point strategic use of it
during the Gaza War um at the same time
it needs to be said that the Israeli
foreign minister Israel cuts um has
become somewhat known for his
controversial um takes I would say when
it comes to the war and it needs to be
said that there are no such plans in
place as far as we know at the moment at
least okay and just quickly let's talk
about timing cease fire negotiations are
supposed to restart in Doha today could
there be any link to these two things
well there isn't there isn't any
apparent link but we can say that the
longer this operation lasts the more
casualties uh the Palestinian side will
have uh the more likely it is to
influence the negotiations in one way or
another uh it needs to be said that the
negotiations are currently in a very
delicate situation uh that there are
talks that um that uh the uh
disagreements uh still remain
um so given that this is the situation
every single such uh hindrance of the uh
attempts by the negotiations to reach a
solution um is bound to be to become
ever more difficult Felix thank you so
much for that update there that's DW's
Felix tamso reporting from
Jerusalem and myav zunshine is a senior
Israel analyst from the international
crisis group in Tel Aviv welcome to D
thanks so much for your time today now
these were the biggest Israeli raids in
close to two decades in the occupied
West Bank weren't they tell us more
about what Israel is trying to achieve
here well there's nothing really new
about what Israel is doing it has been
doing pretty much daily raids in areas
like Janina nablo um not just since
October 7th but for several years now
although the intensity has risen and as
you said at the outset the claim is to
thwart prevent or root out Terror uh but
what we don't really hear from the
Israeli side is the fact that much of
what Israel does in the West Bank
including the phenomenon of settler
violence and increasingly settler
violence and collusion with army uh
violence is something that has obviously
radicalized Palestinians and makes life
there almost impossible for them um so
this is something that you won't hear
much about from the Israeli side um and
also the popularity of Hamas since
October 7th has risen and the fact that
Israel has pummeled and destroyed and
killed over 40,000 people in Gaza
certainly hasn't made the situation any
more calm or moderate in the West Bank I
mean the places might be geographically
separate uh but these are the same
people that we're talking about I should
just mention to our viewers that these
are live pictures that we are seeing
right now um Israel's foreign minister
has called for the temporary evacuations
of Palestinians from the West Bank as
part of this operation talk to her about
this I mean does this mean this is going
to be uh a longer
oparation um I don't know if it's going
to be long uh I think you know Israel
basically does what it feels it it wants
or needs to do on a daily basis so we
could see an intensity for a few days
and the foreign minister said something
that I think he's trying to model what's
happening in the West Bank and what's
happening in Gaza which is that Israel
transfers Palestinians as if they are
you know cattle that could just be moved
around when need be I don't know if he
actually has any say in what's happening
he's not not a defense minister he's not
in the defense Ministry so I'm not sure
exactly how to understand what he's
saying uh but what is clear is that
Israel does as as it pleases with the
Palestinian population in all these
areas and unfortunately the outcome has
not uh provided more security for Israel
in any way if we could talk about timing
ceasefire negotiations are supposed to
restart today in DOA could there be any
link here at
all I mean I think what's important to
understand especially for the viewers is
that these ceasefire talks have for a
very long time now been uh kind of a
sham a facade there hasn't been any real
uh breakthroughs the the issue has been
the same from the very start which is
that there needs to be a permanent
ceasefire obviously Israel has
legitimate security concerns but
everybody in the security establishment
um the people who actually deal with a
day-to-day of the military in Israel
have said to Netanyahu that he needs to
get a deal the hostages and the families
of the hostages have all called for a
ceasefire deal and Netanyahu has refused
to enter one this is even as we see that
people are dying in captivity even
though there's nothing about what he is
insisting on regarding the Philadelphia
Corridor uh which is the uh border
between Gaza and Egypt all these areas
that he says are sticking points is
something that the defense establishment
has said are not an issue not something
that the hostage deal should be um you
know halted on or not made on so
essentially we have a facade between
Israel and the US of ceasefire talks to
keep up some kind of what I consider to
be now a false hope of a ceasefire
because I think if they're was interest
in a ceasefire it would have already
been reached by now my R Sunshine a
senior analyst from the international
crisis group in Tel Aviv thank you so
much for your time for your insights
today sorry I don't have better news
thank
you
e
e e